I packed 15 years of my YouTube
experience into this one video so you
could learn every single thing you need
to know to grow your YouTube channel
today includes my best tips for my
interviews with the biggest YouTubers
including stuff you haven't seen yet
that's the first time I've ever talked
about it publicly really I get into the
science of that if you wanted to boom
boom boom boom like I mean that was
crazy this video also includes moments
from our behind the scenes you're going
to have to seal John's footage he's got
a lot of
good and you'll also get the exact
templates and tools that I learned from
my very first upload in 2010 to working
inside YouTube and Instagram to now
being a fulltime Creator joh I love your
story I'm going to pick his brain once
the cameras are up but you are just so
brilliant I'm watching your show because
I'm trying to learn about you too you're
very good at what you do and don't worry
this isn't the outdated and obvious tips
that you already know we're going to be
getting into the Practical stuff that
you could use
immediately okay my hope with this video
is to make it one of the most helpful
videos about YouTube on YouTube and I
know that sounds crazy but I really
believe that the stuff we're about to
cover is gamechanging whether you're a
new Creator or you're growing and you
want to grow faster and because I always
want to go above and beyond I organize
all the templates and tools and Graphics
from this video plus a ton of other free
bonus material into my YouTube growth
hackpack which you can get for free at
yack pack.com or just scan this QR code
and Beyond the templates from this video
you'll also get the 100 viral video
ideas Playbook with ideas for any Niche
my 10 intro templates to improve your
hooks my confidence on camera Master
Class the exact thumbnail templates that
I've used to get millions of views on
these videos and so much more all for
free okay let's dive in our first tip is
to use visual anchors so here's the
truth too many creators make videos that
are way better off as articles or
written posts on X or LinkedIn period
and that's something I learned from my
interview with one of YouTube's best
storytellers Johnny Harris he said this
if there's a million good stories that
should be reported on my philosophy is
that only 900 of them should be told as
videos and when I asked Johnny how he
filters which ideas should be videos
versus text he said two words visual
anchors and here's a perfect example of
that I wanted to focus on the border
between Columbia and Venezuela where
there was this massive migration crisis
happening and most Outlets were going
there and sort of filming just people
coming across the border right when I
got to the town where that was happening
I definitely went and filmed that but
then I looked around and said like what
else is happening here and there were a
couple visual anchors that were just
hiding in plain sight that no one else
was covering one of them was there was a
a vendor on the side of the street who
was making um sculptures out of money
out of out of currency Venezuelan bolars
that were now worth nothing because of
the hyperinflation crisis he was taking
that and using it as a raw material to
make baskets and like Swan sculptures
and all this stuff that ended up being
like these this beautiful art but it was
so symbolic you don't have to know
anything about macroeconomics about the
geopolitics of South America to see that
something's going on here this guy's
using money to make sculptures and so
that was a visual anchor that to me is
the best use of video to bring somebody
in and really hook them into a topic
that maybe they wouldn't look at
otherwise you know it's a difference
between Show versus tell showing bills
so worthless that people are making
sidewalk origami out of them is much
more powerful than a reporter just
telling you about inflation and don't
worry you don't have to fly to foreign
countries like Johnny did to find ual
anchors you can use this thing called
the napkin test which I talked about in
my interview with Cleo Abram who is one
of the fastest growing YouTubers right
now you know what a good video is if you
and I sat down for coffee and uh I was
telling you a story about something
interesting and the moment when I need
to pull out like a napkin and draw a
diagram or show you something on my
phone and pause it and be like you see
this like that's a good video otherwise
it should just be an essay because
that's much easier to write simply put
the visual anchor test or the napkin
test works like this imagine you're
explaining the idea for your next
YouTube video to a friend do you have to
one draw anything on a napkin to prove
your point two pull out your phone to
show them a photo or three repeat words
like this or that to point out anything
as you explained if the answer was yes
to any of the above congrats you have a
visual anchor if not your idea is better
off as a written post or really not
worth your time at all and to go even
deeper you may be wondering all right
what's the best way to find anchor
visuals for your videos like imagine
there was a place where you could could
sort through a bunch of anchor visuals
for your Niche every single week well
that place exists and it's called Reddit
you just have to know how to use it in
the right way so here's the tactic go to
Reddit type in your Niche or topic and
check out the subreddits or forums that
show up for example here's a subreddit
that I used to check all the time when I
used to make videos about the best
marketing and advertising campaigns and
the first time you go to your subreddit
this is key make sure you filter by top
and all time so you see the best posts
the best visuals which kind upvoted in
this case by over 450,000 members of
this subreddit like it's basically a
prev vetted visual anchor if you want to
make a video about marketing and
packaging and and it's so cool to see
that cuz it just starts giving you more
ideas for longer video and then here's
where things really start rolling you
can literally go back to that same
subreddit every week or every month just
change all time to a weekly and you can
see all the best visuals showing up over
time like this hilarious ad from the
city of La trying to hire a graphic
designer that's been uploaded in the
past week and then think about like this
if you find a lot of visual anchors
using this process then you have enough
to start scripting a long form YouTube
video if you only find a few visual
anchors your idea is probably better off
as a short Tik Tok or real and again if
you find none then probably your idea is
better off as a text post and we'll talk
about the best way to script and weave
all these visuals together coming up and
bonus tip you don't have to just use
Reddit you can look at Instagram
Community Pages Facebook groups you know
anything that has a bunch of people
posting about your your niche in up
voting and vetting the best stuff to the
top so you know you're looking at
something that is already of Interest I
just find that Reddit is where a lot of
things break first like I remember um
when I worked at Instagram I was
chatting with a few people at BuzzFeed
um during their Heyday about how they'd
find their viral video ideas and they
were literally telling me this thing
that I never forget when something gets
posted on Reddit on Monday it ends up on
BuzzFeed on Tuesday then it gets picked
up on social media on Wednesday and then
it shows up on Facebook next month their
words not mine is true so research
visual anchors on Reddit the next tip is
to make your intros rainy on YouTube
great videos are killed by Boring intros
all the time so remember to make it
rainy r a i n y hear me out this means
your intro has to check the following
five boxes or at least as many of them
as possible and I'll show you how I did
it with a few examples of intros that
got 74% retention and 60% retention so r
r stands for result up front in your you
got to tease the result the viewer will
get if they watch your video like where
is it going what are you going to
deliver the value or at least pose the
question that your video will answer
highlight the stakes and make sure it
Peaks enough curiosity to watch and
again I'll show you a few examples of
how to do that for both unscripted and
scripted videos here in a moment a
stands for address the objection call
out the elephant in the room before your
viewers even think about it listen
viewers today are sharper than ever
before because they have more options
than ever before and that means their BS
detectors are on high alert like you can
say the r the result of your video and
your intro but they're already calling
BS in their minds whether it's
subconscious or conscious and you need
to address it I stands for instant for
long form your intros should be around
45 seconds or less and don't worry we'll
talk about what that means for short
form n stands for why now like why is
your YouTube video relevant right now is
there a trend a change or something in
the news that makes your video more
timely and why stands for why you like
why are you the person to deliver this
message and don't get me wrong that
doesn't mean you have to change who you
are for a YouTube intro that just means
you have to highlight the right parts
about your background so here are two
examples of how you could do that one
for unscripted which are videos like
Vlogs man on the street interviews and
another for scripted like Talking Heads
video essays so it can apply to any
video you're making cuz I know there's a
lot of different creators out there so
let's start off with an intro for an
unscripted video where you don't control
what happens you can't control what's
said after you press record and here's
example of my interview with Liza Koshi
that nearing 1.9 million views and the
intro has 74% retention so let's play it
and I'll break down how we structured it
be reading a lot of comments on your
videos Liza and a lot of them talk where
you at upload hello we'll talk about
that why is the Koshi quit YouTube one
of the biggest creators on the platform
disappears although I was at like my
peak in terms of numbers in terms of
eyes and Partnerships a Koshi everybody
the fastest growing YouTuber ever I just
I needed me I missed me and I refus to
be ignored who is ignoring you who is
ignoring Liza Koshi you know so how did
we make this intro rainy well we sorted
through every single moment from this
hourlong interview and here's where we
landed for the r the result right away
we showing you that if you watch you'll
find out why Liza Koshi one of the
biggest YouTubers ever left the platform
at her height with over 15 minutes ion
subscribers and that's what I titled the
video as well which is another way to
communicate the result then immediately
I addressed your objection which is the
next line we put in the intro because
most people would just assume like
there's no way that Liza Koshi actually
talks about why she left YouTube but she
does she doesn't dance around it she
even makes a joke about it and during
the actual interview we deliver on this
by diving deeper the I is for instant
and again this entire intro lasts about
34 seconds which is well below the 45
second threshold the why now the N well
this video came out during a time when
Liza had left YouTube at her height but
she never really talked about it in a
full sitdown interview until now and
then the Yu well I made sure to includes
lines and questions from myself where I
push back and I challenge her in this
intro like really like who is ignoring
you so the viewer knows like oh crap
this is not going to be a cakewalk this
interviewer is going to ask what's on
our mind and you know you have to
remember that making an intro for an
unscripted video does not mean you have
to be unstructured about it in fact how
you structure those moments and sound
bites according to the rainy framework
can make all the difference now next up
here's an intro for a scripted video
which typically means a talking head
video like this one which is another
popular format on YouTube and the intro
that we're about to watch is from a
video that I made a few years ago called
X YouTube employee explains how to grow
on YouTube but let's watch the intro
then we'll break it down because I
actually used a lot of the same tactics
in this video the rules of how to grow a
YouTube channel have completely changed
this year and I would know I used to
work at YouTube for 5 years then worked
at Instagram for 3 years and then I
started this Channel and I wanted share
seven unconventional tips that led me to
get millions of views per day and it's
not the obvious stuff that everyone is
talking about it's stuff I don't think
people have heard before the r is simple
it's tips to grow on YouTube that's what
you get if you watch the a that I
address the objection is that most
viewers who watch videos like this are
like oh these are the same old tips that
I've heard before like be authentic or
be consistent so I'm like no no no this
is not those same old tips and I have to
overd deliver on that obviously but
again addressing the objection I is for
instant and this intro is about 43
seconds long the Y now this video came
out during a time when shorts was still
new and changed how careers approach
their channel so I wanted to lean into
that moment and the Yu well simply is I
worked at YouTube and I've been on the
inside I launched many of these features
that you use today and honestly I know I
sometimes lean on that too much but make
no mistake about it you don't need to be
associated with a brand or have a
professional experience to make a video
about a topic so here's a bonus tip you
could use the guinea pig method where
you put yourself through an experience
to answer that y you question and here's
two examples from two amazing creators
named shervin shares and Sam Reed like
Sherin is not a foot doctor so how did
he answer that Yu question well he only
wore barefoot shoes for a thousand days
and emphasize that in the intro and
title which makes viewers way more
intrigued to hear his perspective versus
the many other shoe review videos out
there and for Sam well what's actually
crazy about this one is that I gave a
talk about this video to Taco Bell and
Sam isn't a nutritionist or anything but
him eating only Taco Bell for 30 days to
see if it's the healthiest fast food
makes his intro all the more compelling
now of course that's an extreme example
and I wouldn't recommend it for obvious
health reasons but the point here is
this think about how you can make the Yu
part of your intro and video stronger
since that often takes the most work and
again the free YouTube hack pack that I
mentioned includes a lot more intro
templates and examples like the
contrarian hook or the shock value hook
the challenge hook and more so you could
put this all into practice immediately
all right moving to the the next tip
follow the five C's you already know how
important thumbnails are to getting
people to click on your videos so I made
this checklist that I'll show you in a
moment inspired by my interview with one
of the best to ever do it Marquez
brownley okay so thumbnails have two
things they have to look good really
small MH and then they have to obviously
get you intrigued and maybe get the
video started without actually getting
the video started so Marquez talked
about two things when it comes to
thumbnails but I actually think there
are five and I call it the five C's
composition context clean curiosity and
color the first C is composition meaning
does the framing or the angles or the
leading lines draw you in the first
thumbnail here is so captivating because
it comes from the point of view of a
person holding on to those chairs for
dear life and the leading lines down the
corridor I mean this is just a
masterpiece of a thumbnail the second
one comes from Isaiah photo and it's so
well composed of the camera being
positioned above his head the prime
bottles all all around him like you
could tell that he took time to frame
and compose this shot properly the
second C is context so too many creators
design their thumbnails without any
context of where it'll show up they
design it on a giant screen so it may
look good on desktop but like Marquez
says uh it has to look good when small
on mobile so here's a rule I like to use
if you scale down your thumbnail to 18%
can you still read it if not you got to
simplify it and you can see in these
examples you can clearly see the
headphones the ball the text the spider
it still pops even when it's smaller the
next C is clean too many thumbnails are
a cluttered mess the rule to remember is
this does your thumbnail have three
elements or less like this first one has
the head the text the pink foam the
second one from Tyler Blanchard has his
head the text a grenade it it's simple
and clean the next C is curiosity
meaning does your thumbnail pose a
question that viewers immediately want
answered and this could be done with
blurring or blocking out of an element
like unbox therapy did or contradicting
something like you seen this fake model
thumbnail that Zach did and again this
one has great composition too look at
those leading lines they just draw your
eye in so the more C's you could check
off the list the better and the last C
is the most powerful and that's color
meaning do you pair colors in a way that
draws the eye and for that you want to
refer to the color wheel and pair of
primary colors with the complimentary
ones like Ryan Tran's hair and shirt in
this thumbnail are yellowish gold so
it's not an accident that he made the
chairs around him purple or Michelle car
pairing the primary color of blue of her
blazer and glove with orange jumpsuit
and the orangish brown background
brilliant and you know it's really w I
was playing around with the new chat GPT
40 and you could literally take these
thumbnails or any thumbnail that aderes
to the 5c's and then like take a selfie
of
yourself um and then put in a prompt
that's like please replace the person in
this thumbnail with me and keep their
wardrobe and facial expression the same
and then you like look at this this is
crazy you'll get these thumbnails and to
be clear I'm not recommending you do
this at all I'm just showing you how
powerful these tools are becoming
especially if you know the 5c's so
obviously there's a lot of ethical
questions and and you know there's a lot
of things to unpack and discuss here but
the point is that even you could like
put in a sketch like this now and get a
great thumbnail back in no time I mean
just understanding these 5c's is a game
changer and I created about 90 more
examples of great thumbnails in the
YouTube hack pack that I mention I I
know I keep bringing that up but I
really believe it puts so much to this
in practice but the bottom line is you
don't need to hit all the 5c's with your
thumbnail but the the more the better
the next tip is to test macro than micro
so YouTube recently launched a thumbnail
testing tool and there's a really clever
way to use it that few creators have
caught on to so quick background this
thumbnail testing tool is a relatively
new feature where you can upload three
thumbnail variations and here's an
example from a Casey neistat interview
and basically YouTube shows those three
variations to different segments of
viewers and after a few days it selects
a winning thumbnail based on which one
drives the most watch time to your video
and no surprise but Mr B is using this
tool in a really creative way that few
others are during our interview he broke
down his step-by-step process on his
protect the yacht video Step One is he
uploaded three thumbnails with macro big
changes like the angle of the shot his
face the different items from the gun
the clothing the bomb step two he let
YouTube select the best performing
thumbnail after a few days simple step
three he then made micro changes to the
winning thumbnail like a different shirt
or a person on the boat like very small
and then step four he typically will
continue to make micro changes until the
test results aren't that different Ryan
Tran did the same with this video I
tested onear hotels like first he had
macro variations text shirt composition
then after YouTube selected the best
performing one he made micro changes
just to the text everything else stayed
the same a lot of time these creators
will run tests like this for months but
I know not everyone has the team or the
time to do that so just try to run at
least two thumbnail tests to squeeze as
as much juice out of your video first
macro changes then micro continue until
you see a clear winner and then move on
to your next video so the next tip is
fix your first frame so most of what
we've covered till now is for long form
videos but this tip is specifically for
shorts because your first frame in your
shorts is as important as your thumbnail
and intro and your long form and what I
mean by your first frame is literally
what do you see at 0 seconds of your
short your Tik Tok or your real it all
applies and the key is to making sure
you set up the expectation and intention
for what is about to happen for example
I have a short form series with over 250
million views where I ask people on the
street who's more famous creators or
celebrities who are these two people is
that Logan Paul and uh I don't know who
the other one Tom Clooney Tom Clooney
That's My Boy uh he be fighting and
that's my man that be
acting and my first frame for these
videos is really dialed in where I have
this physical print out with the faces
of a Creator and celebrity so you
immediately get
but honestly it did not start out like
that like it took lots of iteration
because my first attempts were just
terrible I did this whole boring
monologue where I said hey guys we're
here in Hollywood asking people who's
more famous creators or celebrities
first up we have Logan Paul versus Tom
Hanks like way too long then I had a
shorter version of that question and
prompt and then I had an even shorter
question where I said who are these two
people you saw the faces and We're Off
to the Races which bring me to a bonus
tip whenever possible use props like
printouts to show it physically not just
digitally with Graphics like most
creators do with all the editing tools
available today and here's another
example Keegan Evans has this amazing
format where he makes videos based on a
random product and a random genre by
putting them in two bowls in the frame
and putting note cards in them like
he'll pick a card that says Oreo and
then action movie for the genre and
he'll make that into a short video it's
really good but the way he sets it up
physically and has everything in the
first frame is a great example here's
another one for my shorts where we
compare Creator products to Fortune 500
products I Tred to make my first frame
as visual as possible the bottled the
blindfolds everything is right there
physically but if I'm being honest I
think Logan did this much better with
his first frame where he did a similar
video because he shows everything more
clearly with even fewer Graphics he
brought the bottles up in the frame he
put sugar on the table when comparing
the sugar count and he wrote out
different note cards to show you things
about Gatorade vers Prime and you know I
actually had a chance to ask Casey
neistat about this because he draws
things on his hands he makes cutouts
print outs better than nearly anyone and
he said this is why it helps so much
with retention I think that's infinitely
more interesting than sort of an optical
text that you type into into um you know
Premiere video editing used to be a
highly specialized thing very few people
knew how to do it 30 years ago there's
only a few video editors and now like
you know my nine-year-old teaches my
wife how to edit videos and then during
our interview he said this quote that
I'll never forget Perfection erases
Humanity when something is truly perfect
there's no kind of the human hand in it
and this applies even more to shorts
because people scroll so quickly and see
so many Graphics so that means if you
fix your first frame to set up your
story immediately and physically even if
it's imperfect it'll help you stand out
and if you still have any doubt of how
powerful a great first frame is like
knowing this can be so powerful it can
be deceiving um just check out this
hilarious clip no it's actually amazing
how much more credible people seem to
think you are when you're just
pretending to be on a podcast like you
don't even have to do that much it's
just all you really have to do is look
to the side of the camera as opposed to
looking into the camera people are like
wow he's got to be really important to
be on a podcast I'm ready to buy
whatever supplement he's trying to sell
me literally by having a sure mic and
looking off to the side in his first
frame it makes this feel like he's on a
podcast when he's just looking at the
wall like I'm not saying do this but
it's crazy how these little touches in
your first frame can change the
expectation of the short versus him just
looking at the camera like this the next
tip is to adapt outliers I'll level with
you the best time to start on YouTube
was 2012 but now is the second best time
to start and that's not some Rah R sees
the moment type speech it's about the
data you see YouTubers in 2012 had the
first mover Advantage they were early
they had less competition but all of us
have the second mover advantage since
YouTube is over 20 years old now you can
see which video ideas or outliers have
already taken off and adapt them and
what are outliers well here are a few
examples they're basically videos that
perform so above and beyond a Channel's
normal noral audience then they must be
tapping into something more like there's
something about the video's topic or
format or packaging that you should
study and adapt which we'll talk about
how to do in a moment and the bigger the
outlier the more you should take notice
in fact I asked Mr Beast how he finds
outliers like these to make videos that
end up getting hundreds of millions of
views and here's what he said I thought
it was so interesting how you've studied
outliers and I want to talk about that
video the dollar versus series talk
about the inspiration because I don't
think people realize how you came to
that and then I got a ton of followups
at that yeah 100% so for the $1 versus
the thing is yeah we've all seen
BuzzFeed did it but also not only did
BuzzFeed but it's just like people
across every format on YouTube beauty
channels gaming channels everyone was
doing videos where they'd compare
something cheap to something expensive
and they usually did well and what I
like to do is if I see something going
viral across like multiple you know
formats all all across YouTube then it's
like okay that seems to be something
people really like and you know they're
really interested in that content so
maybe I should just do that I get a
really beway on the channel and
sometimes creators like Nick Giovani
who's one of the biggest food creators
out there don't even bother with certain
ideas if they're not outliers or haven't
already performed well on other channels
because this a sign that viewers may not
be interested it comes down to a deep
dive on you know has this been done
before and how did it do I think that's
always important to look at not to say
that you can't take a concept that has
been done before and not make it better
yeah but if people aren't interested in
something there's sometimes where it's
just like this may not be worth our time
you mean looking at it in terms of other
channels other genres it can be really
helpful to go and see okay 10 people
have tried to make uh a video trying the
best burgers in the world and no one
seems to be that interested in it and so
that might not be worth the time and
that's a good sort of first test to see
has this been done you can also do this
with shorts I was actually with Jimmy
when he was filming this running video
which was inspired by Daniel leel and
adapted to feel more like Mr Beast with
bags of money and it's crazy how much
Jimmy tries to elevate things because he
filmed this entire short when I was
there then he scrapped it because it
didn't look good enough and went back to
film it again with different props and I
even tried taking part in the running
video when the money was the heaviest
and uh let's say it got a little
embarrassing for me I got
you we'll give him some we'll give him
some power my God this two
one but here's where it got even more
interesting Jimmy saw that that short
did well on his channel and then he did
it again this time with bigger and
bigger Feast double bars which I think
is a key Nuance in other words you could
also study your own outliers and then
double down and actually Patty Galloway
told me how he does this with his
creators like jesser to help him grow
past 25 million subscribers it's just a
simple question of you know what are the
five or six best performing videos I've
made on my channel could I make them
again in some form could I adopt them
could I make a series out of this video
with jesser going to three NBA games in
24 hours yeah we've done that same video
four times probably going to go on five
six times each time we just put a little
twist it's like playoff games instead of
regular games it's seven games in four
days instead of three you know it can
kind of go infinitely like that and now
if you're wondering okay well John how
in the world do I find these outlier
ideas well there's actually a
step-by-step process that I've outlined
here and I'll show you a much faster way
to do it in a few moments but to find an
outlier in your Niche all you have to do
is this number one open up your YouTube
app and search three to four words
related to your Niche then go to search
filters and sort by view count video and
anytime this is key because essentially
you're asking YouTube to turn off its
algorithm for just a moment to show you
the videos that have the most viewed
then scroll and click on these top
videos and then click one more time to
see the subscriber count of the channel
That uploaded the video and where you're
looking for here are videos that have
over five times more views than the
subscriber count of the channel That
uploaded it and if you make a list of
these outliers and reference them
they'll help you so much when you
brainstorm your ideas now what if there
was a way to find outliers even faster
or what what if you could automatically
get ideas on how to adapt that outlier
based on your Niche well that's exactly
what you could do with spotter Studio
which is a sponsor of today's video with
spotter Studio you can go to the outlier
Tab and filter videos about their
outlier score you can also look up 2x
outliers 10x filter by long form short
form and here's the best part you to
just press this brainstorm button and it
generates ideas customized to your
channel and if you go to this link
you'll get an extended free trial
spotter studio and because I always want
to go above and beyond for you guys I'm
doing two things one I'm hosting a free
online workshop for anyone who signs up
in the next two weeks and on top of that
I'll be picking nine of you from that
group to fly to LA to come to the
lighthouse to spend a day Getting
mentored By Me Colin Samir and April
Lynn and yes we will be roasting your
videos and if you've already joined
spotter Studio don't worry you're
already eligible just make sure to add
10 or more ideas to your idea bank then
hit the share with an expert button so I
see it and you're seeing this after 2
weeks don't worry about that either
you'll still get the extended free Tri
spotter Studio which should help your
channel a ton okay moving on the next
tip is to copy with taste so once you
find these ideas and outliers don't just
copy and paste do what I like to call
Copy with taste and here's a little
Spectrum I created to remember it put
your own spin on it adapt from outside
your Niche meld it with other ideas
we'll talk about how to this in a second
but I thought jimmmy actually brought up
a great Nuance about all of this if you
watch someone's video and you can't tell
the difference between their video and
my video besides the budget then it's
like yeah you're copy and paste but yeah
but like you know me and Ryan might
sometimes do similar videos not even say
he's copy but like Ryan and I could like
I will go visit hotel rooms $1 versus
Ryan will go visit scary a scary
airbnb's and it doesn't feel the same
right that's like and that's the thing
like Ryan has his own voice he's quirky
and he's just like you know let's see
breathe more and blah blah and that's
like Ryan style and then our style is
like a little bit quicker and just show
you cool things and spend more money and
you know making it epic and um so yeah
that's not that he's copying us but in
general that would be like doing it with
taste and then the copy and paste is
yeah you know there are tons of other
people who after our hotel video just
went literally sometimes hit the same
hotels same thing use my same texts on
screen speak like me act like me use my
cuts use the same timing pacing and it's
like be more like Ryan invent your own
style we need more people like that we
need less people that just look at Ryan
look at me and other big creators and
just you know literally copy and paste
like if people wanted to watch My Style
videos they'll just watch my video we
don't need someone else doing my videos
with lower budget or less effort like
and that's why when you adapt outliers
with taste you get this amazing string
of ideas where Mr Beast elevates a
buzzfeed concept but does hotel rooms
instead of donuts and takes it up to $1
million then Ryan Tran puts his own spin
on it by only focusing on cheap hotels
and then Nick Giovani does cheap
resturants instead of hotels and a cycle
of creativity continues On and On In
fact there's this great quote from the
late Virgil ablo who said you only have
to make a 3% tweak to an existing
concept for it to be Innovative that's
it 3% and that's coming from one of the
best designers of all time and one of
the best ways to make a 3% change or
copy with taste is to look at different
genres eras or mediums so Ryan Tran Nick
djani Mr Beast BuzzFeed all of them
change the genre of a similar concept
from Donuts to hotels to cheap hotels to
restaurants which kept it Innovative but
besides looking outside your genre for
inspiration today you could also look
back at different eras just like Zack
King did to grow past 40 million
subscribers and I'm not talking about
looking back at eras like the early
2000s I'm talking about even further
back Zach told me that he and his team
study filmmakers like Buster Keaton from
the 1920s like literally 100 years ago
because so few creators are looking that
far back to come up with ideas today oh
I love Buster and I noticed that he does
so many jump cuts that are reminiscent
of what you're doing today yeah it's so
good this is so good um we share all
these clips internally really um every
once in a while but I love Buster Keaton
um I studied him we did a video
referencing Buster at the back of the
car and the car drives off and I'm on
the tire and that's one of his gags but
we just added the M it's like how do you
10% that or 50% it it's fun to reference
those because for sure the Young
Generation does not know who that is and
the third way to with taste is to change
the medium so by medium I mean like film
TV radio YouTube this is honestly one of
the more straightforward ones but it's
also the more competitive because a lot
of people are already adapting the
medium of tv for YouTube but there's
still a lot of opportunity like for
example arach did this I tra 25
strangers in a box which is basically a
YouTube version of big brother or the
Sid man's Tinder in real life is a
faspac and YouTube version of MTV's next
dating show or honestly I'll give credit
what credit is due my man on- the street
videos were totally inspired by Jimmy
Kimmel's can you name a country segment
except I wanted to know if people can
name more celebrities or creators or
another example of changing mediums
entirely is going from a shot in a TV
show like Severance and adapting it to a
still image for a thumbnail just like
Jimmy said in our interview it's just
interesting that you can draw
inspiration from anywhere like basically
one of my thumbnail guys Chucky watch
Severance and one of the opening shots
is that uh image in the top middle where
this uh lady is laying on a table and
he's like we should do this for a
thumbnail and I was like what does that
even mean and he sent me that Snapchat
with a circle in a human and I was even
more confused the image on the top right
and I was like Chucky I I don't know
maybe you're drinking alcohol even
though he doesn't um and uh and somehow
that led to this thumbnail we ended up
doing here in the bottom right which
actually worked pretty well and it was
kind of nice cuz usually my thumbnails
have my face and the left side uh and
I've been looking for ways to not have
every thumbnail be the exact same and
that was a good Breakaway that people
seem to like it's not like we got that
from a different YouTube thumbnail like
he was literally just watching SE it's
you know so look outside your genre
across mediums or back at different eras
for better inspiration so the next tip
is to find popular problems here's the
thing YouTube is the world's second
largest search engine after Google and
it's estimated that there are over six
billion searches per day of people
trying to watch videos to answer a
question to get advice solve a problem
and so forth so as a Creator as
especially if you're just starting out
and growing you'd be crazy not to try to
make content to meet that search demand
you see just as entrepreneurs make
products to solve problems we as
creators can make content to solve
problems but the question remains how do
you find the most popular problems in
your Niche to make content about well
there's three ways to do that first is
the incognito mode method two is the
quora method and three is to pull your
audience the incognito mode method well
for that one you just have to go to
incognito mode in your browser then go
to YouTube and start typing in video
ideas or search queries and let autoc
complete tell you what most people are
searching for you see by doing this in
incognito mode you're not letting your
past searches change the autocomplete so
you're seeing the autocomplete based on
the masses based on their searches
second you can go to quora and figure
out what are the most popular questions
that people are asking in your Niche all
you have to do is search your topic and
a filter by all time and I love quora
because it's literally a place where
people ask questions and votes tell you
what the most amount of people need help
answering and if you make content about
that you're golden third and perhaps
most underrated is poll your audience
you know you could use the poll features
on Instagram YouTube Community LinkedIn
and so forth to treat your audience like
a focus group I mean if you follow me on
Instagram you'll already know that I ask
your thoughts on topics for my next
videos or even thumbnails you like best
and I constantly go through our Discord
Community to see if there's a pattern of
questions or problems that I could help
with in my next video basically the goal
is to make content that falls in the
middle of this Vin diagram where what
you know and what you're excited about
matches up with what people want to hear
about whereas so many creators don't
even ask Their audience and just make
content that feels totally out of touch
and the next tip to remember is that
interested is interesting all right I
know I know we've talked a lot about
data but sometimes you just got to say
screw the data screw the algorithm
because there's a lesson here that dates
back to one of YouTube's first viral
videos the Double Rainbow Guy which I
never really considered until it was
pointed out by Dan mace who is the
creative genius behind a lot of Mr Beast
and Casey nist videos interested is
interesting I think it's like so
remember the first ever viral video I'm
pretty sure for me the first of a viral
video that I saw was the double rainbow
oh my god oh my
[Music]
god wow H yeah everybody's seen a double
rainbow yeah that video went viral
because of the man's reaction to the
double rainbow he was enthusiastic about
the rainbow like Casey's content and
what he does is he's just so interested
in it that it becomes interesting and if
you think about it it makes sense I mean
that's why even Casey's videos about
public bathrooms or bike lane violations
get millions of views and and yeah okay
now he has a huge following but it all
started by being so interested in
something that it became interesting to
all of us and I still believe in all the
tactics and the data that we discussed
so far but the big caveat to all of this
is this if you can barely contain your
excitement about a video idea then just
make the damn video trust me the
audience will feel it because at the end
of the day YouTube this thing is about
transferring the energy that you feel in
front of the camera to the person
watching it in front of their screen
okay I I I I know okay that was a little
mushy gushy but I want to follow up with
another tactic all right the next tip is
to avoid eye fatigue this one drives me
crazy because so many creators overedit
their videos and you don't even have to
have any technical editing skills to
implement this tip so most creators Jam
way too many visuals on screen that
cause your eyes to Dart all over the
place and get fatigue which will
inevitably lead to viewers clicking off
case in point we have a Discord
Community with over 6,000 creators who
share their videos thumbnails and ideas
for feedback and I want to share a few
seconds of a video from a Creator who
shared this and I say this out of love
but just look at this Frame alone I'm
sorry I mean my eye has to be in four
places at once the top visual the bottom
visual what's on the monitor what's on
the notebook I mean this just continues
on and on and countless creators do this
without realizing in their videos as
well in contrast here's what we did
during my interview with Mr Beast where
he's talking about these six different
versions of a thumbnail a lot going on
but we literally zoomed in and dimmed
everything else out but the one visual
he's referencing so there's no question
what you should focus on at any given
moment this is even more important now
with so many YouTube views coming on TV
where the screen is bigger so you don't
want to have people darting their eyes
and craning their necks while they're
watching your videos so make sure you
have one primary focal point and for
shorts it's slightly different but same
principle and here's a guide for that
anything around here is off limits it's
too far away from the center focus and
it overlaps with the UI the buttons on
YouTube Tik Tok and Instagram anything
here is safe because it's where the eye
naturally looks your text hook should go
here to make it more prominent your eyes
go here and your captions go here right
below and again if you want this
template while you're editing or to give
to your editors that's also in the
YouTube hack pack I mentioned earlier
the next tip is to remember the Paradox
of production so few creators understand
this and it kills their growth simply
put the smaller you are the more your
production value matters the bigger you
are the less it does and people who say
oh your camera or your gear doesn't
matter they're honestly naive yes story
is more important than that but for new
creators your viewers are Beyond
impatient and your production value and
your prep are your first impression so
get a freaking mic set up some lights
script so you don't ramble and we'll
talk about how to do that in a second or
at least prep some bullet points you
know people say oh it's inauthentic it's
over rehearsed whatever it's not it just
means that you care and maybe you're the
next I show speed or Emma Chamberlain
but they're the exceptions and you know
even speed told me during your interview
about how his spontaneous live streams
actually take a lot of planning it's a
lot it's a lot that go into these
streams that people don't see like
people just see the 15sec clip of me
you know what I'm saying but it's a lot
that goes into that just for that 15
seconds or even offthe cuff comedy
YouTubers like Liza Koshi said in her
interview that she scripts her videos in
advance and a perfect example of this is
her Dollar Store series wait so you're
going to the dollar store you're picking
up like a like a like a basketball what
this is only 79 come on man it's a
dollar store get this cheap stuff out of
here oh my God this is a dollar a dollar
a dollar a dollar dang that's so cheap I
can go balls to the wall in this place
oh sorry that joke was scripted
absolutely weeks before I'm going to the
Dollar Store and looking at each product
understanding what I could do and how I
can you know write a joke around a
specific word on that product and raise
it up to camera uh and then hopefully
give a natural effortless um delivery
when it comes to day of shooting so it
takes some pre-production that I never
really talked about Eliza also said her
parody video of Vogue 73 questions which
now has 32 million views took seven
attempts to film even though it looks
all Improv right now flip it okay let's
say you do have a bigger audience what
do your viewers want to see they want to
see you but raw unedited and I think
that's one of the reasons why our behind
the scenes videos when Mr Beast took off
because people rarely see him in an
unedited context like that I mean that's
also why we love docu series or even you
know these FaceTime Tik toks of
celebrities because after seeing them so
overly produced everywhere we want to
see it all Stripped Away and I actually
had a chance to ask Will Smith about
this because he's obviously been in some
of the biggest Productions ever and now
he's active on on socials I can't wait
to share that video but as newer
creators you're not there not yet and to
be honest production value is just a
fancy schmancy way of saying respect
your viewers eyes and ears only then
will they respect you with their
attention the next tip is simplify your
speech all right so when it comes to
scripting during my interview with MKBHD
he showed me the video scripts and we
talked about how they tend to be at a
sixth grade speaking level despite him
talking about in-depth topics like Tech
and in fact many other YouTube creators
like Ryan traron Tom Scott and so forth
tend to hover around that fifth to
seventh grade level so for YouTube you
need to simplify how you talk without
dumbing it down that's the key
especially if you're making videos about
a popular problem for example so for
that I always try to follow this cheat
sheet which I call the Three B's basic
bold brief and you could probably tell
by now that I love alliteration so the
first b stands for basic make sure you
translate jargon into simple words like
instead of Leverage say use instead of
optimize say perfect instead of
competencies say skills the second thing
is to be bold remove words from your
speech that can undermine your Authority
Without You realizing like possibly it
might I think there's a time and place
for that but most times it just
undermines your Authority be more
assertive the third thing is be brief
and these are just rules of thumb but
they'll become instinctual over time
when scripting your videos so avoid more
than 25 words in a sentence because
you'll start to ramble avoid more than
three sentences in a paragraph because
you're jumbling a lot of thoughts into
one section and my biggest pet peeve by
far a avoid double descriptions like you
don't need to say the room was clean and
tidy just say the room was clean we get
the point move on the next tip is to
hone your off camera craft so there's
two parts to being a good YouTuber being
good on camera by doing all the things
that we're talking about here improving
your production your speaking your
thumbnails you're editing but the second
thing The X Factor to all of this is
having a skill off camera and the more
Uncommon that skill or craft the easier
it is to honestly have a real career on
YouTube and I'll give you an extreme
example of that followed by a more
relatable one so the extreme but a great
example of this is Matthew beam before
he had millions of subscribers few
people know that he was an auto mechanic
who painted and wrapped hundreds of cars
off camera before he ever did it on
camera with hits like making a real life
Lightning McQueen or a SpongeBob Patty
wagon looking at the larger creators
they all have like their own unique
value and mine was being in the car
industry like I think the average age in
my industry was like 55 I was always the
youngest person so I thought there's no
there's probably a good likelihood that
I'm the only person that's really into
YouTube that can like paintt a car know
someone that can rap a car and do
something like that so I I realized that
that was like my advantage and if you
look at Matt's videos now it's clear
he's kept honing his craft off camera
with bigger and bigger projects another
example of this is Dr Mike who keeps
treating patients even though he's well
past 10 million subscribers I can't give
up practicing clinical medicine because
it makes me understand better the
problems people have it allows me to
relate better to people use better
language where I can actually see
one-onone if they're understanding what
I'm saying and it just makes you just
more valuable but also happier even when
the Channel's not performing as well as
you hope going to the office and having
someone tell you your notes are late or
your patient mad that you're five
minutes late to their appointment that's
valuable and I people will always
belittle it so valuable being able to
see the exact outcome of your work right
there in the moment so so valuable it's
what keeps him sharp because he's in the
trenches he's hearing about the latest
problems from his patients and that
could spark a Content idea that could
help even more people or another example
is Hayden Hillier Smith who makes
content about editing and he told me the
same thing it's fun doing the podcast
but for me I still want to maintain the
right to still be talking about editing
and so I need to make sure that I'm
still in the thick of it and so I'm
still very much taking on as many jobs
as I can as long as as long as they have
reason be balanced and I could go on and
on creators like dream worked with
another Minecraft creator before
becoming one of today's biggest gaming
YouTubers himself uh Nick Giovani honed
his cooking skills before becoming one
of today's biggest food channels and
Peter McKinnon who is the king of
Photography tutorial said this my wife
was always a huge advocate still is of
practicing your craft so if she sees me
just pounding videos after videos after
videos she's like when was the last time
you went on and like just took photos
not for Instagram I was like ah you
should probably do that like she's like
because as much as you're the teacher
and as much as you're the guy inspiring
everyone else to get out there and do it
but you still need to like follow the
passion that got you here in the first
place and if you're not learning you're
unlearning so you got to make sure you
keep your skills sharp and you know I
try to do the same as well off camera I
work with so many creators of all
different sizes Brands Executives who
bring me in like just the other week I
was working with LinkedIn co-founder
Reed Hoffman and when they hire me to
come help with their content and social
media it helps keep me sharper no matter
how big this channel grows I like
working with other people to understand
okay what problems are they facing and
what content can I make because all this
stuff on camera to be honest the
speaking the editing the packaging
that's a must you need that to survive
on YouTube but it's the stuff off camera
that helps you thrive it's the stuff
that happens in Dr Mike's office or
Nick's kitchen or Matt's autoshop and
that's what gives them their Edge and
ideas and sure you could say okay John
yeah I don't want to hone any of these
off camera skills or these professions I
just want to be a pure Entertainer like
I show speed Logan Paul Emma Chamberlain
to which I say good luck because sure
you may be part of the 0.01% that gets
popular from your personality alone but
that's a much harder path and as Dr Mike
says kids these days when they're pulled
they say their number one dream job is
to be a YouTuber and I have to redirect
them in that hope and say hey learn
something bring some value to YouTube
otherwise you probably won't get popular
number one because you won't have
anything really interesting to talk
about but even worse you might get
popular and they're like wait why is it
worse if I get popular well then you'll
get popular you're probably going to be
popular for a short period of time and
at some point it'll fall off and then
you're going to feel terrible about
yourself and you won't have a career not
to necessarily fall back on but to say
well I've learned this this is where my
value is they'll say a negative comment
will come in and say you have no value
and they say something really mean but
then if you look inside and you say well
what is my value what am I bringing to
the table that's going to be a that
you're really going to struggle with man
what a bar from Dr Mike all right moving
on the next tip is earn the right to
Rebel so this one has more to do with
making money and brand deals which I
actually think is one of the biggest
pitfalls for creators as they grow and I
want you to imagine for a second that a
brand uh wants to give you $225,000 to
make a sponsored video for them and
here's a kicker you barely have to
mention the Brand's product at all and
on the service I know this makes no
sense at all but I got to bring back
Casey neack because he does this all the
time just ask Nike J crew or the other
that he's worked with on his videos so
how do you convince them to give him
full creative control and how can you do
the same or just get a little bit more
control in your sponsored videos even if
you're a smaller Creator well it's a
huge contrast to what creators normally
do they usually stick to a Brand's
talking points and script with no wiggle
room and typically the video
underperforms as a result but the key is
What Casey did before pitching Brands
his wild idea and he earned what I like
to call the right to rebel and to do
that he started by creating free ads for
Nike and soon he got their Executives
attention if you're not willing to do
the work without getting
paid a hundred times then chances are
you're never going to find the
opportunity to do the work and get paid
for it and that's how you know that's
how I was able to you know get the
thumbs up to make make it count that's
how I was able to get the thumbs up to
make the Mercedes campaign or the Walter
midi campaign that eventually led to a
brand deal with Nike where they asked
him to make three videos to make it
count for Nike yeah I think what's
underappreciated about that video is I
deal with Nike to make three videos for
the fuel band and the first two videos
had significantly more emphasis and
significantly more budget and when it
came time to make the third video I
called up Alex Lopez at Nike and I was
like look I want to do this differently
I want do something that's way off the
book I'm way different from what we
initially scripted I I won't spend any
more money um but I think I can make
something much better and he was like
okay just like don't screw me over don't
leave me in the lerch but if you want to
run wild with a creative go for it the
video was Casey spending Nike's budget
to fly all around the world with their
Nike fuel band it was his way of living
their slogan make it count now had Casey
pitched the crazy idea first he probably
would never have gotten the green light
as a Creator I've seen this firsthand
too as we work with more brands on a
repeat basis but can I tell you
something from working on the other side
the corporate side of all this it's not
just the manager or whoever you're
talking to at the brand who has to
approve your idea for a sponsored video
or a segment it's their boss and their
boss's boss and everyone is honestly
just covering their ass like it's why so
few big companies take big risk believe
me I've worked at Several of them and
it's not that they don't believe in
creators a lot of them do it's just that
they don't want to be fired like like
actually like if something goes wrong
with your video or it underperforms or
it bombs they just want to justify why
they took that risk or at least explain
their decision to their colleagues and
the best way to do that is for them to
show
your past work like like oh wow this
Creator videos perform well for us so
that's why we gave them more leeway so
if you give that to them first then
you'll earn that right to rebel and do
crazier ideas which is really where the
Breakthrough comes and the last tip is
be more like Mozart now before I explain
what the heck Mozart has to do with
YouTube um this is probably the most
personal of all the tips and I want to
share one more story from my interview
with Casey I know I'm referencing a lot
but this one is really stuck with me you
see for 800 days straight Casey uploaded
a Vlog every single day no matter what
knowing that you have to post every day
like did something to me which was like
you know Screw Your writer block like it
doesn't get to happen there were also
days many days probably happened a dozen
times over the course of the Vlog where
I would sit down to do the edit and I
would have no audio because of my own
not paying attention or something
microphone not plugged in but what' you
do in those cases I go watch the videos
but I think I did like a lot of like
cutting to me sitting in the kitchen
being like look it's 9: at night I just
have worded this audio I don't have any
I don't have any audio so I'm going to
put some text on the screen and like did
something fun like that now compare that
to today Casey has only posted seven
videos in the last 365 days so I had to
ask him an ironic question I asked him
is it harder to make videos now that you
have more time yeah harder in other
words does Casey feel the wrath of
Parkinson's law the phenomenon where
your work expands to fit the time that
you give it to which he said this do you
feel like now that you don't have a
daily deadline which most YouTubers
don't have like your work kind of
balloons to fit the deadline that you
have yeah it's much harder now because I
don't need to post today yeah I haven't
posted a video in eight months there's
no fire there's no rush I think that
speaks to the importance of posting your
work instead of spending time perfecting
it even if you feel insecure about it
like I was surprised to learn that Casey
did I was really insecure about that and
then sure enough I come to realize that
like no a lot of people are tuning in
because beyond the content they've sort
of formed an interest in whatever it was
that I was sharing that day and when I
heard Casey say that it reminded me of
my first year on YouTube where I got so
in my head that I only uploaded six
videos and whenever I went to upload a
video my desktop would look like this
I'd finish the video and save the file
as final and then I noticed that the
color of the video looked a bit off so
I'd up the saturation and then resave it
as final uncore final but then I
realized that the audio of the video
could be clearer so then I tweak it and
resave it as final but actually and then
I kept repeating this process until
sometimes I honestly still didn't upload
the video because it still wasn't good
enough but hearing that Casey kept
posting even though he was insecure
about his videos changed everything and
then it really hit home when I realized
that this trend exists throughout
history that a lot of great artists
throughout time were as prolific as
Casey that they cared as much about
quantity as quality even if you go back
over 200 years to Mozart because Mozart
wasn't this automatic Masterpiece making
machine that history makes him seem to
be some of his early critics called his
music far too noisy but Mozart just kept
working kept putting out work and made
over 600 compositions before he died at
age 35 Which is far far more than his
peers who only averaged 150 compositions
despite them living much longer in other
words mozard made countless compositions
that we've now forgotten to get the few
masterpieces that we still remember or
the legendary artist Monae who may 2,500
pieces of art but here's the thing about
Monae that just just crushes my soul and
reminds me of so many creators including
myself because that number 2,500 should
be way higher but Monae was such a
perfectionist that this one time he
spent three years working on a set of
new paintings until at the last moment
he noticed these slight imperfections in
the corners of those paintings so he
took out a butcher knife and slashed
through every single one of them because
they weren't perfect enough for him but
curators and Scholars today say that he
destroyed over $3.4 Million worth of art
that night just because it wasn't
perfect enough which got me thinking how
many of us are too much like Monae
instead of Mozart or even Casey how many
of us slash through our videos instead
of just shipping it and how many
masterpieces have we unknowingly left on
our floor because we got to in our heads
it only once I switched my mindset from
Monae to Mozart that I started see a
change in my career as a Creator because
after posting an embarrassing six videos
in my first year we've now uploaded over
270 videos that have somehow gotten over
340 million views and we're getting
guests on our show that I can't believe
are coming on and yes we've had tons of
flops more than ever but I now realize
that cringing at your past work is proof
of progress and and sometimes
perfectionism is just procrastination in
Disguise so next time you're working on
your next video be more like Mozart not
Monae put down your knife because every
Creator every artist even if you're as
big as Cleo Jimmy or Casey all of them
feel some level of anxiety but I hope no
matter what that you keep creating that
you keep putting stuff out there because
the only thing worse than something
imperfect is something that doesn't
exist thank you again for watching make
sure to subscribe and ring the bell it
would mean the world with the amount of
work that we put into our videos and I
think you'll like this video that builds
on a lot of the topics that we talked
about out and I'll see you guys in the
next one